chage - change user password expiry information   


chage changes the number of days between password changes and the date of the last password change. This information is used by the system to determine when a user must change her password. The chage command is restricted to the root user, except for the -l option, which may be used by an unprivileged user to determine when her password or account is due to expire.
 With the -m option, the value of mindays is the minimum number of days between password changes. A value of zero for this field indicates that the user may change her password at any time.
 
With the -M option, the value of maxdays is the maximum number of days during which a password is valid. When maxdays plus lastday is less than the current day, the user will be required to change her password before being able to use her account. This occurance can be planned for in advance by use of the -W option, which provides the user with advance warning.
 
With the -d option, the value of lastday is the number of days since January 1st, 1970 when the password was last changed. The date may also be expressed in the format YYYY-MM-DD (or the format more commonly used in your area).
 
The -E option is used to set a date on which the user's account will no longer be accessible. The expiredate option is the number of days since January 1, 1970 on which the accounted is locked. The date may also be expressed in the format YYYY-MM-DD (or the format more commonly used in your area). A user whose account is locked must contact the system administrator before being able to use the system again.
 
The -I option is used to set the number of days of inactivity after a password has expired before the account is locked. The inactive option is the number of days of inactivity. A value of 0 disables this feature. A user whose account is locked must contact the system administrator before being able to use the system again.
 
The -W option is used to set the number of days of warning before a password change is required. The warndays option is the number of days prior to the password expiring that a user will be warned her password is about to expire.



[root@rahul ~]# chage rahul
Changing the aging information for rahul
Enter the new value, or press ENTER for the default

-m   Minimum Password Age [0]:
-M   Maximum Password Age [99999]:
        Last Password Change (YYYY-MM-DD) [2012-08-19]:
-W    Password Expiration Warning [7]:
-I        Password Inactive [-1]:
-E        Account Expiration Date (YYYY-MM-DD) [1969-12-31]:


[root@rahul ~]# chage -m 7 rahul
[root@rahul ~]# chage -M 30 rahul


4)What is the command to do password less logins to other machines.

expect and ssh-keygen


mkdir — For creating folders( use -p option to create multiple folders at a time)
 ls –List folders/files( check what ls -1 do)

top — To monitor system activities

lsof –To check whats happening on the server and which process open which file.

netstat -tcp –Gives you complete picture about network connection details.

vnstat –Gives you Network band width statics

sh –For running shell scripts

history –For monitoring the commands executed by users

cd –For changing directories

vi --For editing configuration files.

chmod –To change permissions of folders and files.

mount –For mounting formated partitions.

service –For start/restart/stop a service.

chkconfig –For permanent on/off a service.

fdisk -l –To list all the partitions

This is my own list, you can have your list.

2)Give me some commands for user management.

last, chage, chsh, lsof, chown, chmod, useradd, userdel, newusers.

3)Give me syntax checking commands for following services

DNS, SAMBA, Apache etc

4)What is the command to do password less logins to other machines.

expect and ssh-keygen

5)Give me some security monitoring related commands.

lsof, netstat, top, ps -ef, tail, last, tcpdump, sestatus, history, w.

6)What is the difference between man, info, whatis commands and a –help option for a command?

whatis gives you one line answer.

–help option for a command gives you one line answers for each option supported by a command

man command gives you medium size info.

info command gives full details about a commands, lots and lots of information about a command.
